When I say the words “holy” and “holiness,”
what comes to your mind?
Many think of words like “clean” and “pure.”
But let’s change the question a little.
Who comes to your mind?
Likely, you think of Jehovah.
You might also picture
Jesus Christ and the holy angels.
But do you think of imperfect humans?
Can humans be described as holy?
Yes.
We know this because humans
were created in God’s image.
Just as we can reflect godly qualities
—such as love, kindness, and self-control—
we can reflect holiness.
How seriously should we take holiness?
It’s no small matter.
Today, the world around us
is increasing in badness.
Second Timothy 3:13 warns
that ‘wicked men
would advance from bad to worse.’
Undoubtedly, before the end,
Satan’s efforts
to promote wickedness will intensify.
So we must intensify our efforts
to be holy and reject all badness.
Who do you think are Satan’s primary targets?
We are.
He and the demons are
like a pack of hungry lions
looking to devour us.
Being a publisher of the good news
is a privilege that Satan seeks to attack.
Are you a parent with children?
Do you think Satan
wants you to become unclean?
Yes.
He knows that devouring a family head
could weaken an entire family.
In the congregation,
Satan would love to devour
you dear pioneers,
ministerial servants, and elders.
Are you in the circuit work?
a missionary? a Bethelite?
What a sacred privilege!
But remember, it also means
that we have a big target on our back.
Satan and the demons would love
to penetrate our clean and holy position.
Doing so could impact
the Kingdom work
or stumble others.
So we can’t be complacent.
We must intensify our efforts
to reject all badness.
Thus, holiness is a vital topic!
To that end,
the theme for this month’s program
is “Perfecting Holiness in the Fear of God.”
It’s based on 2 Corinthians 7:1.
To begin, we need to better understand
the Source of holiness, Jehovah God.
As we read the Bible, we see that holiness
is an important quality
that Jehovah wants us to know about him.
The Bible contains many verses
that associate God’s name
with the words “holy” and “holiness.”
Please open your copy of the Bible
to one example in Isaiah chapter 6.
We’ll start at Isaiah 6:1.
Now imagine that you’re the prophet Isaiah,
who received a divine vision.
What would you have seen and heard?
Let’s read verses 1 to 3:
“In the year that King Uzziah died,
“I saw Jehovah sitting
on a lofty and elevated throne,
“and the skirts
of his robe filled the temple.
“Seraphs were standing above him;
“each had six wings.
“Each covered his face with two
and covered his feet with two,
“and each of them would fly about with two.
“And one called to the other:
“‘Holy, holy, holy is Jehovah of armies.
The whole earth is filled with his glory.’”
Isaiah was likely filled with awe.
Verse 2 indicates that he saw seraphs,
spirit creatures evidently of very high rank.
What do we learn from their song?
Their repeating the word “holy” three times
teaches us that Jehovah
is holy to the superlative degree.
No one else is as holy as he is.
But what exactly is holiness?
What does it mean to be holy?
Let’s dig deeper.
We can do so with a helpful tool found
in the revised New World Translation.
If you don’t have
the revised edition in your language,
we’ll share the key point in just a moment.
In the revised printed edition,
the glossary is located
several pages after Revelation
and immediately after
the “Bible Words Index.”
The topics are arranged alphabetically.
So please find the entry
for “Holy; Holiness.”
If you are using JW Library®,
here are two ways to get to the glossary.
In the app, go to the Bible.
Then at the top of the screen,
tap on the magnifying glass
to start a search.
Then type in the word “holy.”
Soon you’ll see an entry from the glossary.
Tap on that.
Another way is to go to Publications
and then Books.
From there you can open the glossary
and find the entry for “holy.”
Ready?
Let’s read it:
“A quality possessed inherently by Jehovah;
“a state of absolute
moral purity and sacredness.
“When referring to humans, animals, things,
“places, time periods, and activities,
“the original Hebrew word conveys the thought
“of separateness, exclusiveness,
“or sanctification to the holy God;
“a state of being set aside
for Jehovah’s service.
“In the Christian Greek Scriptures,
“the words rendered ‘holy’ and ‘holiness’
“likewise denote separation to God.
“The words are also used to refer
to purity in one’s personal conduct.”
What did we learn?
First, we’re reminded that Jehovah is pure
in the absolute sense.
But what does it mean that holiness
is a quality that he possesses inherently?
Let’s illustrate.
Consider the words “human” and “imperfect.”
Today, those two words naturally go together.
Imperfection is within all of us
and affects everything we do.
Now consider another set of words
that consistently go together:
“Jehovah” and “holy.”
Holiness permeates Jehovah.
He doesn’t have to perfect
holiness like we do.
Everything about him
is inherently clean,
pure, and upright.
What a contrast
Jehovah’s holiness is to the world around us!
Today, virtually everything
about human society alienated from God
is polluted in some way,
either by inherited imperfection
or by outright wickedness.
But Jehovah
is completely removed from sinfulness.
He’ll never be polluted by badness.
He’ll never turn corrupt,
immoral, or abusive.
Because he’s absolutely holy,
he’s completely reliable.
This means that Jehovah is the ideal Father.
How encouraging and reassuring!
Jehovah’s holiness is beautiful.
Think about the physical world.
How do you feel about beautiful things?
Are you drawn to them or repelled by them?
For example, look at these landscapes.
How do they make you feel?
Would you like to spend time here?
Can you see yourself walking here,
filling your lungs with clean, fresh air?
Or how about drinking
from a river of pure, crystal-clear water?
How we yearn to live in such conditions!
And we will!
But have you ever wondered what it is
about these images that’s so appealing?
Simply put, everything is pure and clean.
On the other hand, if these same locations
were filled with garbage, graffiti, and smog,
would you still want to be there?
Likely not.
Pollution and filth are not attractive.
What’s the point?
We’re naturally drawn to beauty.
Beauty is associated with things
that are clean, pure, and bright.
That’s how Jehovah
wants us to view his holiness.
Meditating on this aspect
of God’s personality
draws us closer to him.
And though he hates all sin,
his Word confirms that he doesn’t hate us.
All of this stirs within us
a desire to perfect holiness.
Let’s now open to 2 Corinthians 7:1,
our theme scripture.
Though Paul wrote this to one congregation,
Jehovah preserved it for us.
It says:
“Therefore, since we have these promises,
“beloved ones, let us cleanse ourselves
“of every defilement of flesh and spirit,
perfecting holiness in the fear of God.”
The concluding part of the verse
serves as the basis for our theme.
What does it mean to perfect something?
According to one dictionary,
to “perfect” means
“to bring to a state of supreme excellence,”
to “rid of faults,” to “improve” or “refine.”
As an example, perhaps you enjoy a hobby
like drawing, taking photographs,
or playing an instrument.
If an expert in that field told you
that you should perfect  your talent,
what would he mean?
First, he’s confirming
that you have some experience already.
Second, he’s telling you:
“You have what it takes
to be even better in the future.
I can see your potential!”
Of course, perfecting a hobby takes time.
The same is true of our holiness.
The book
Word Pictures in the New Testament  notes
that the word “perfecting”
at 2 Corinthians 7:1
means “not a sudden attainment
of complete holiness,
but a continuous process.”
So Jehovah, the expert in holiness
and our best Friend, is appealing to us.
In effect, he’s saying:
‘I see your potential!
‘You have what it takes
to make progress in holiness.
Keep working to perfect it!’
Does such an appeal touch your heart?
We could ask ourselves,
‘Is there an area in my life
where I can refine my holiness?’
For example, consider the matter
of physical cleanness.
Chapter 8 of the book
How to Remain in God’s Love
discusses the need to glorify Jehovah
by keeping our body and clothing,
our home and surroundings,
and our place of worship clean.
Being physically clean
benefits us and those around us.
More important, it honors our Holy Father.
But our personal cleaning program
must go below the surface.
In our theme text, Jehovah urges us
to “cleanse ourselves
of every defilement of flesh and spirit.”
This involves every aspect of our lives.
For example, something we read in the Bible
or that we hear at a meeting may warn us
that our thoughts need further refinement.
Perhaps we detect
a tendency toward materialism.
Or we realize that our precious time
is being consumed by social media,
surfing the Internet, or playing video games.
At Ephesians 4:23, 24, we’re urged
to “continue to be made new
in [our] dominant mental attitude”
and to “put on the new personality.”
So our challenge might be
a deeply ingrained,
negative personality trait.
A sister named Cristina admitted:
“I often find myself
looking enviously at others.
I compare what they have
with what I don’t have.”
Well, these are just a few examples.
And these may not be our weaknesses,
but the lesson is clear:
All of us need to keep examining ourselves.
And, brothers and sisters,
when we identify a personal weakness,
what should we do?
For illustration purposes,
let’s use the example
of Cristina and her battle with envy.
A three-step program
to change our dominant mental attitude
was published on page 11 of the June 2019
study edition of The Watchtower.
What’s the first thing Cristina should do?
Step 1: She needs to talk to Jehovah,
admitting that she recognizes
the need to change.
If she prays regularly
for Jehovah
to “put within [her] a new spirit,”
our holy God will help her.
Step 2: She needs to meditate
so as to examine herself
in the mirror of God’s Word.
For example, she might think deeply
about the fact that “love is not jealous”
and “does not look for its own interests.”
This would help Cristina to hate envy.
Step 3:
She needs to assess her relationships
and choose good association.
Could it be that negative gossip,
either in person or online,
is shaping her thinking?
If so, she’d be wise
to choose better association.
Yes, Jehovah’s blessing
upon Cristina’s personal efforts
will enable her to perfect holiness.
These three steps can help us do the same.
Let’s now review our key points.
First, wickedness
is going “from bad to worse,”
so we need to intensify
our efforts to be holy.
Second, since Jehovah
is the Source of holiness,
everything about him
is clean, pure, and upright.
This beautiful quality draws us to him
and moves us to be holy.
Third and most important,
Jehovah appeals to us
to “cleanse ourselves
of every defilement of flesh and spirit.”
So may we accept Jehovah’s help
and work to perfect holiness in God’s fear.